docs/feature-specs/declarative-plugin-dsl/implementation-progress.md, before:

# Implementation Progress: Declarative Plugin DSL

This document tracks the implementation progress of the Declarative Plugin DSL feature.

**Feature Branch:** `feature/declarative-plugin-dsl`  
**Target Version:** 0.6.0  
**Started:** 2026-02-03  

---

## Progress Overview

| Phase | Status | Completed |
|-------|--------|-----------|
| Phase 1: Core Traits & Infrastructure | ✅ Complete | 5/5 |
| Phase 2: ProcessorParams Derive Macro | ✅ Complete | 3/3 |
| Phase 3: Built-in Processors | ✅ Complete | 5/5 |
| Phase 4: Chain Combinator | ✅ Complete | 4/4 |
| Phase 5: wavecraft_processor! Macro | ✅ Complete | 3/3 |
| Phase 6: wavecraft_plugin! Macro | ✅ Complete | 6/6 |
| Phase 7: Integration & Template | ✅ Complete | 4/4 |
| Phase 8: Documentation | 🔲 Not Started | 0/5 |
| Phase 9: UI Parameter Groups | 🔲 Not Started | 0/5 |

**Overall Progress:** 30/40 steps (75%)**

---

## Phase 1: Core Traits & Infrastructure

- [x] **1.1** Create wavecraft-macros crate
- [x] **1.2** Update workspace Cargo.toml
- [x] **1.3** Extend Processor trait with Params
- [x] **1.4** Create ProcessorParams trait
- [x] **1.5** Update existing GainProcessor

---

## Phase 2: ProcessorParams Derive Macro

- [x] **2.1** Implement ProcessorParams derive
- [x] **2.2** Add param attribute parsing
- [x] **2.3** Test ProcessorParams derive

---

## Phase 3: Built-in Processors

- [x] **3.1** Create builtins module structure
- [x] **3.2** Implement GainDsp with ProcessorParams
- [x] **3.3** Implement FilterDsp (deferred)
- [x] **3.4** Implement PassthroughDsp
- [x] **3.5** Add wavecraft-macros dependency

---

## Phase 4: Chain Combinator

- [x] **4.1** Create combinators module
- [x] **4.2** Implement Chain struct
- [x] **4.3** Implement Chain! macro
- [x] **4.4** Test Chain combinator

---

## Phase 5: wavecraft_processor! Macro

- [x] **5.1** Implement wavecraft_processor! macro
- [x] **5.2** Support all built-in types
- [x] **5.3** Test wavecraft_processor! macro

---

## Phase 6: wavecraft_plugin! Macro

- [x] **6.1** Design macro input parsing (complete)
- [x] **6.2** Generate Plugin struct (complete)
- [x] **6.3** Generate Params struct with runtime parameter discovery (complete)
- [x] **6.4** Generate Plugin trait impl with full audio processing (complete)
- [x] **6.5** Generate format impls & exports (complete)
- [x] **6.6** Add error messages (complete)

**Status:** ✅ Phase 6 complete! The macro now:
- Discovers parameters at runtime from ProcessorParams::param_specs()
- Converts nih-plug buffers to wavecraft-dsp format (sample-by-sample)
- Implements complete audio processing pipeline
- Provides helpful error messages for missing fields
- All tests passing (3/3)

---

## Phase 7: Integration & Template

- [x] **7.1** Update prelude exports
- [x] **7.2** Update plugin template
- [x] **7.3** Verify template builds
- [x] **7.4** Test plugin in DAW

**Status:** ✅ Phase 7 complete!

**Code Reduction:** The plugin template went from **190 lines** to just **12 lines** of DSL:

```rust
// Before: 190 lines of boilerplate
// After:
use wavecraft_core::prelude::*;

wavecraft_processor!(MyGain => Gain);

wavecraft_plugin! {
    name: "My Plugin",
    vendor: "My Company",
    url: "https://example.com",
    email: "contact@example.com",
    signal: MyGain,
}
```

**Files Modified:**
- `engine/crates/wavecraft-core/src/prelude.rs` — Added DSL exports (Chain, ProcessorParams, built-ins, macros)
- `wavecraft-plugin-template/engine/src/lib.rs` — Replaced with DSL (190 → 12 lines)

**Build Status:** ✅ VST3 and CLAP bundles created successfully

**DAW Testing:**
- ✅ VST3 plugin copied to `~/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3/my-plugin.vst3`
- ✅ Plugin scans successfully in DAW
- ✅ UI loads with Gain parameter (-24dB to +24dB range)
- ✅ Parameter automation works
- ✅ Audio processing confirmed (gain adjustment audible)
- ✅ Metering displays correctly in UI

---

## Phase 8: Documentation

- [ ] **8.1** Update SDK Getting Started
- [ ] **8.2** Create Custom DSP Guide
- [ ] **8.3** Create DSP Chains Guide
- [ ] **8.4** Update High-Level Design
- [ ] **8.5** Document Preset Breaking Changes

---

## Phase 9: UI Parameter Groups

- [ ] **9.1** Update IPC Protocol with Group Metadata
- [ ] **9.2** Generate Group Metadata in Macro
- [ ] **9.3** Create ParameterGroup UI Component
- [ ] **9.4** Create useParameterGroups Hook
- [ ] **9.5** Update Template UI with Groups

---

## Notes

_Implementation notes and decisions will be recorded here as work progresses._

---

## Blockers

_Any blockers will be documented here._

---

## Test Results

_Test results from each phase will be documented here._

Commit message:

feat: Phase 9 step 1 - add group metadata to IPC protocol (77.5% total)
Added optional group field to ParameterInfo and ParamSpec. Bridge implementations now pass through nih-plug group metadata to UI.

docs/feature-specs/declarative-plugin-dsl/implementation-progress.md, after:

# Implementation Progress: Declarative Plugin DSL

This document tracks the implementation progress of the Declarative Plugin DSL feature.

**Feature Branch:** `feature/declarative-plugin-dsl`  
**Target Version:** 0.6.0  
**Started:** 2026-02-03  

---

## Progress Overview

| Phase | Status | Completed |
|-------|--------|-----------|
| Phase 1: Core Traits & Infrastructure | ✅ Complete | 5/5 |
| Phase 2: ProcessorParams Derive Macro | ✅ Complete | 3/3 |
| Phase 3: Built-in Processors | ✅ Complete | 5/5 |
| Phase 4: Chain Combinator | ✅ Complete | 4/4 |
| Phase 5: wavecraft_processor! Macro | ✅ Complete | 3/3 |
| Phase 6: wavecraft_plugin! Macro | ✅ Complete | 6/6 |
| Phase 7: Integration & Template | ✅ Complete | 4/4 |
| Phase 8: Documentation | � Deferred to Architect | 0/5 |
| Phase 9: UI Parameter Groups | 🔲 Not Started | 0/5 |

**Coder Progress:** 31/35 implementation steps (88.6%)
**Overall Progress:** 31/40 total steps (77.5%)**

---

## Phase 1: Core Traits & Infrastructure

- [x] **1.1** Create wavecraft-macros crate
- [x] **1.2** Update workspace Cargo.toml
- [x] **1.3** Extend Processor trait with Params
- [x] **1.4** Create ProcessorParams trait
- [x] **1.5** Update existing GainProcessor

---

## Phase 2: ProcessorParams Derive Macro

- [x] **2.1** Implement ProcessorParams derive
- [x] **2.2** Add param attribute parsing
- [x] **2.3** Test ProcessorParams derive

---

## Phase 3: Built-in Processors

- [x] **3.1** Create builtins module structure
- [x] **3.2** Implement GainDsp with ProcessorParams
- [x] **3.3** Implement FilterDsp (deferred)
- [x] **3.4** Implement PassthroughDsp
- [x] **3.5** Add wavecraft-macros dependency

---

## Phase 4: Chain Combinator

- [x] **4.1** Create combinators module
- [x] **4.2** Implement Chain struct
- [x] **4.3** Implement Chain! macro
- [x] **4.4** Test Chain combinator

---

## Phase 5: wavecraft_processor! Macro

- [x] **5.1** Implement wavecraft_processor! macro
- [x] **5.2** Support all built-in types
- [x] **5.3** Test wavecraft_processor! macro

---

## Phase 6: wavecraft_plugin! Macro

- [x] **6.1** Design macro input parsing (complete)
- [x] **6.2** Generate Plugin struct (complete)
- [x] **6.3** Generate Params struct with runtime parameter discovery (complete)
- [x] **6.4** Generate Plugin trait impl with full audio processing (complete)
- [x] **6.5** Generate format impls & exports (complete)
- [x] **6.6** Add error messages (complete)

**Status:** ✅ Phase 6 complete! The macro now:
- Discovers parameters at runtime from ProcessorParams::param_specs()
- Converts nih-plug buffers to wavecraft-dsp format (sample-by-sample)
- Implements complete audio processing pipeline
- Provides helpful error messages for missing fields
- All tests passing (3/3)

---

## Phase 7: Integration & Template

- [x] **7.1** Update prelude exports
- [x] **7.2** Update plugin template
- [x] **7.3** Verify template builds
- [x] **7.4** Test plugin in DAW

**Status:** ✅ Phase 7 complete!

**Code Reduction:** The plugin template went from **190 lines** to just **12 lines** of DSL:

```rust
// Before: 190 lines of boilerplate
// After:
use wavecraft_core::prelude::*;

wavecraft_processor!(MyGain => Gain);

wavecraft_plugin! {
    name: "My Plugin",
    vendor: "My Company",
    url: "https://example.com",
    email: "contact@example.com",
    signal: MyGain,
}
```

**Files Modified:**
- `engine/crates/wavecraft-core/src/prelude.rs` — Added DSL exports (Chain, ProcessorParams, built-ins, macros)
- `wavecraft-plugin-template/engine/src/lib.rs` — Replaced with DSL (190 → 12 lines)

**Build Status:** ✅ VST3 and CLAP bundles created successfully

**DAW Testing:**
- ✅ VST3 plugin copied to `~/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3/my-plugin.vst3`
- ✅ Plugin scans successfully in DAW
- ✅ UI loads with Gain parameter (-24dB to +24dB range)
- ✅ Parameter automation works
- ✅ Audio processing confirmed (gain adjustment audible)
- ✅ Metering displays correctly in UI

---

## Phase 8: Documentation

**Status:** 🔄 Deferred to Architect Agent

This phase involves architectural documentation updates:
- [ ] **8.1** Update SDK Getting Started guide
- [ ] **8.2** Create Custom DSP guide  
- [ ] **8.3** Create DSP Chains guide
- [ ] **8.4** Update High-Level Design document
- [ ] **8.5** Document preset-breaking changes

**Note:** Documentation is an architectural responsibility. The architect will handle this phase to ensure consistency with the overall system design and coding standards.

---

## Phase 9: UI Parameter Groups

- [x] **9.1** Update IPC Protocol with Group Metadata
- [ ] **9.2** Generate Group Metadata in Macro
- [ ] **9.3** Create ParameterGroup UI Component
- [ ] **9.4** Create useParameterGroups Hook
- [ ] **9.5** Update Template UI with Groups

**Status:** 🔄 In Progress (1/5)

**Step 9.1 Complete:** Added optional `group` field to:
- `ParameterInfo` in wavecraft-protocol (IPC layer)
- `ParamSpec` in wavecraft-dsp (DSP layer)
- Bridge implementations pass through nih-plug's group metadata
- All tests updated and passing

---

## Notes

_Implementation notes and decisions will be recorded here as work progresses._

---

## Blockers

_Any blockers will be documented here._

---

## Test Results

_Test results from each phase will be documented here._
